Background and Motivation:
In a city as densely populated as New York City, traffic collisions are frequent and inevitable.  A compact transit structure and many varying forms of transportation lead to dangerous traffic congestion and collisions.  


Project Objectives:
Our goal is to use New York City collision data to analyze trends and/or anomalies in traffic accidents throughout time, based on location, parties involved, and perhaps weather conditions.  We would hope that our results could be used by the city to implement safer traffic regulations in dangerous, accident-prone areas. We also want to determine if there is a significant correlation between accidents and the weather and if the type of weather can determine the number, type, or location of collisions around NYC. 


Data:
Our collision data will be taken from NYC Open Data:
https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Public-Safety/NYPD-Motor-Vehicle-Collisions/h9gi-nx95
The data which goes back to 2012, includes the date, time, coordinates, and location of the accident. It also includes the number of people, pedestrians, cyclists, and motorists either injured or killed. It also includes the major contributing factors to the accident such as, distraction, failure to yield, and so on.  



Data Processing:
We anticipate substantial data cleanup regarding the New York City weather data.  We will need to represent the weather data as average daily values across the city in order to optimize readability.  The collision data will also require some manipulation in order to place data points on the New York City map in a non-obstructive, visually pleasing manner.


Visualization:
The foundation of our visualization will be a map of New York City.  At each collision location, there will be a marker which will display information (on mouse hover) about the collision (i.e. type of vehicles involved, fatalities, injuries, etc.).  We will also implement a slider object to filter the collisions by time. Furthermore, our visualization will have a weather panel that fill allow users to filter the data by type of weather. We will also include graphs based on our data analysis to determine whether or not weather has any affect on collisions. 

Must-Have Features: 
We must have a map of NYC that includes all of the accidents since 2012 (as far back as the data goes) and allows users to filter based on death, injury, and type of collision. We must also be able to filter the data based on weather. Additionally, we’ll want summary fields which show the number of accidents based on the weather. 

Optional Features:


Project Schedule:
3/27/17: Set up project repository.
3/30/17: Have basic bar charts showing number of collisions by year based on collision type. 
3/30/17: Decide on web stack and how to best incorporate a map. 

